docs(core): describe interactions between view-encapsulated components (#42397)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/view-encapsulation.md

In Angular, component CSS styles are encapsulated into the component's view and don't
affect the rest of the application.

To control how this encapsulation happens on a _per
component_ basis, you can set the _view encapsulation mode_ in the component metadata.
Choose from the following modes:

> - `ShadowDom` view encapsulation uses the browser's native shadow DOM implementation (see

Author: Thanks. The parenthesis you saw here was part of the markdown link syntax (e.g. `[text](url)`) so I needed an extra one if the link is to appear in brackets (e.g. `([test](url))`).

<code-example path="component-styles/src/app/quest-summary.component.ts" region="encapsulation.shadow" header="src/app/quest-summary.component.ts"></code-example>

`ShadowDom` view encapsulation only works on browsers that have native support
for shadow DOM (see [Can I use - Shadow DOM v1](https://caniuse.com/shadowdomv1)).

> The support is still limited, which is why `Emulated` view encapsulation is the default mode and recommended in most cases.

Reviewer: It looks like the support has improved and IE11 (which is now deprecated since v12) is the only browser that doesn't support that. May be we can revisit this paragraph and rephrase it (I guess the recommendation will sill be the same, but the wording would better reflect the current state)?

Author: I looked at this paragraph a few times and at the support for Shadow DOM.
As it stands there are enough issues (obviously in IE but I understand also in Safari) that I felt this wording was still accurate.
When we finally remove support for IE 11, then I think we could come back to this again.

Reviewer: Makes sense, thanks Pete.

  &lt;hero-team _ngcontent-pmm-5 _nghost-pmm-6>
    &lt;h3 _ngcontent-pmm-6>Team&lt;/h3>
  &lt;/hero-team>
&lt;/hero-detail>
</code-example>

There are two kinds of generated attributes:

- An element that would be a shadow DOM host in native encapsulation has a
  generated `_nghost` attribute. This is typically the case for component host elements.
- An element within a component's view has a `_ngcontent` attribute
  that identifies to which host's emulated shadow DOM this element belongs.

The exact values of these attributes aren't important. They are automatically
generated and you should never refer to them in application code. But they are targeted
by the generated component styles, which are in the `<head>` section of the DOM:

<code-example format="">
[_nghost-pmm-5] {
  display: block;
  border: 1px solid black;
}

h3[_ngcontent-pmm-6] {
  background-color: white;
  border: 1px solid #777;
}
</code-example>

These styles are post-processed so that each selector is augmented
with `_nghost` or `_ngcontent` attribute selectors.
These extra selectors enable the scoping rules described in this page.

## Mixing encapsulation modes

> It is not recommended to mix components that use different view encapsulation, but where it is necessary you should be aware of how the component styles will interact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid mixing components that use different view encapsulation, but where it is necessary you should be aware of how the component styles will interact.
```
Imperative vs passive voice

- The styles of components with `ViewEncapsulation.Emulated` are added to the `<head>` of the document, making them available throughout the application, but are "scoped" so they only affect elements within the component's template.

- The styles of components with `ViewEncapsulation.None` are added to the `<head>` of the document, making them available throughout the application, and are not "scoped" so they can affect any element in the application.

- The styles of components with `ViewEncapsulation.ShadowDom` are only added to the shadow DOM host, ensuring that they only affect elements within the component's template.

> **All the global styles (including those added for `ViewEncapsulation.Emulated` and `ViewEncapsulation.None` components) are also added to the shadow DOM host of each `ViewEncapsulation.ShadowDom` component.**

Reviewer 2: Really? Is this *ALL* component styles, or only components which are used inside of a `ShadowDom` component?

Author: All components styles are added! AFAICT There is only one `SharedStylesHost` per application. I argue that this is a bug in https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/5059#issuecomment-766167662.

But I am wrong her to say "all global styles" because any styles defined outside of a component are not added.

    border: 1px solid black;
  }

> h3[_ngcontent-pmm-6] {
> background-color: white;
> border: 1px solid #777;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
h3[_ngcontent-pmm-6] {
  background-color: white;
  border: 1px solid #777;
}
```

</code-example>

These styles are post-processed so that each selector is augmented
with `_nghost` or `_ngcontent` attribute selectors.
These extra selectors enable the scoping rules described in this page.

## Mixing encapsulation modes

It is not recommended to mix components that use different view encapsulation modes, but where it is necessary you should be aware of how the component styles will interact.

- The styles of components with `Emulated` and `None` view encapsulation are added to the `<head>` of the document, making them available throughout the application.

>   This means that styling for components with `None` view encapsulation will affect any matching elements in the document, while styling for `Emulated` components will only affect elements that are within their components templates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This means that styling for components with `None` view encapsulation will affect any matching elements in the document, while styling for `Emulated` components will only affect elements that are within their component's templates.
```

- The styles of components with `ShadowDom` view encapsulation are only added to the shadow DOM host.
  This ensures that styling for components with `ShadowDom` view encapsulation can only affect matching elements within the component's template.

> - All the top level styles (including those added for `Emulated` and `None` view encapsulation components) are also added to the shadow DOM host of each component that has `ShadowDom` encapsulation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- All the top-level styles (including those added for `Emulated` and `None` view encapsulation components) are also added to the shadow DOM host of each component that has `ShadowDom` encapsulation.
```

Author: I'll update this across the document.

  **This means that styling for components with `None` view encapsulation will affect matching elements within the shadow DOM.**

>   This may seem counter-intuitive at first, but without this a component with `None` view encapsulation could not be used within a component with `ShadowDom` view encapsulation, since its styles would not be available to it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This may seem counter-intuitive at first, but without this a component with `None` view encapsulation could not be used within a component with `ShadowDom` view encapsulation, since its styles would not be available to it.
```
...but without **this** a component with...  Style guide preference: Where possible, put a noun after this or that for clarity.

### Examples

This section demonstrates how the styling of components with different view encapsulation interact.
See <live-example></live-example> to try out these components yourself.

> First, there is the `NoEncapsulationComponent` that has `ViewEncapsulation.None`. This colors its template nodes red.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, there is the `NoEncapsulationComponent` that has `ViewEncapsulation.None`. This colors its template nodes red.
```
...**This** colors its template nodes... Needs a noun with this.

> Angular adds the styles for this component to the top level document and also to any shadow DOM hosts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Angular adds the styles for this component to the top-level document and also to any shadow DOM hosts.
```

These styles are therefore available throughout the app.

<code-example path="view-encapsulation/src/app/no-encapsulation.component.ts" header="src/app/no-encapsulation.component.ts"></code-example>>

<img src="generated/images/guide/view-encapsulation/no-encapsulation.png" alt="component with no encapsulation">

Next, there is the `EmulatedEncapsulationComponent` that has `ViewEncapsulation.Emulated`. This colors its template nodes green.

> Angular also adds the styles for this component to the top level document, and shadow DOM hosts, but are scoped by the attributes described [above](#inspecting-generated-css).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Angular also adds the styles for this component to the top-level document, and shadow DOM hosts, but are scoped by the attributes described [above](#inspecting-generated-css).
```

Therefore, only the nodes directly within this component's template will match these styles.

> Since these styles are more specific, they override the top level styles from the `NoEncapsulationComponent`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since these styles are more specific, they override the top-level styles from the `NoEncapsulationComponent`.
```

> The `EmulatedEncapsulationComponent` contains a `NoEncapsulationComponent` which is styled as expected because the scoped styles do not match its contents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `EmulatedEncapsulationComponent` contains a `NoEncapsulationComponent`, which is styled as expected because the scoped styles do not match its contents.
```

<code-example path="view-encapsulation/src/app/emulated-encapsulation.component.ts" header="src/app/emulated-encapsulation.component.ts"></code-example>>

<img src="generated/images/guide/view-encapsulation/emulated-encapsulation.png" alt="component with no encapsulation">

Finally, there is the `ShadowDomEncapsulationComponent` that has `ViewEncapsulation.ShadowDom`. This colors its contents blue.
Angular adds styles for this component only to the shadow DOM host, so they are not visible outside the shadow DOM.
Angular has also added the styles for both the `NoEncapsulationComponent` and `ViewEncapsulationComponent` to the shadow DOM host, so those styles are still available to the template of this component.
The `ShadowDomEncapsulationComponent` contains both a `NoEncapsulationComponent` and `ViewEncapsulationComponent`.
The styles added by the `ShadowDomEncapsulationComponent` component are available throughout the shadow DOM of this component, and so to both the `NoEncapsulationComponent` and `ViewEncapsulationComponent`.
Since the `EmulatedEncapsulationComponent` has very specific "scoped" styles the styling of this component's template is unaffected.

> But since styles from `ShadowDomEncapsulationComponent` are added after the styles from the other components they override the styles from the `NoEncapsulationComponent`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But since styles from `ShadowDomEncapsulationComponent` are added after the styles from the other components, they override the styles from the `NoEncapsulationComponent`.
```
